LSTOPO(1)			     hwloc			     LSTOPO(1)

NAME
       lstopo, lstopo-no-graphics, hwloc-ls - Show the topology of the system

SYNOPSIS
       lstopo [ options ]... [ filename ]

       lstopo-no-graphics [ options ]... [ filename ]

       hwloc-ls [ options ]... [ filename ]

       Note that hwloc(7) provides a detailed explanation of the hwloc system;
       it should be read before reading this man page

OPTIONS
       --of <format>, --output-format <format>
	      Enforce  the output in the given format.	See the OUTPUT FORMATS
	      section below.

       -i <path>, --input <path>
	      Read the topology from <path> instead of discovering the	topol‐
	      ogy of the local machine.

	      If <path> is a file, it may be a XML file exported by a previous
	      hwloc program.  If <path> is "-", the standard input may be used
	      as a XML file.

	      On  Linux,  <path>  may  be  a directory containing the topology
	      files gathered from another machine topology with	 hwloc-gather-
	      topology.

	      On  x86, <path> may be a directory containing a cpuid dump gath‐
	      ered with hwloc-gather-cpuid.

	      When the archivemount program is available, <path> may also be a
	      tarball containing such Linux or x86 topology files.

       -i <specification>, --input <specification>
	      Simulate a fake hierarchy (instead of discovering	 the  topology
	      on  the local machine). If <specification> is "node:2 pu:3", the
	      topology will contain two NUMA nodes with 3 processing units  in
	      each of them.  The <specification> string must end with a number
	      of PUs.

       --if <format>, --input-format <format>
	      Enforce  the input in the given format, among xml, fsroot, cpuid
	      and synthetic.

       --export-xml-flags <flags>
	      Enforce flags when exporting to the XML format.	Flags  may  be
	      given  as	 numeric  values  or as a comma-separated list of flag
	      names that are  passed  to  hwloc_topology_export_xml().	 Those
	      names may be substrings of actual flag names as long as a single
	      one  matches.   A	 value	of  1 (or v1) reverts to the format of
	      hwloc v1.x.  The default is 0 (or none).

       --export-synthetic-flags <flags>
	      Enforce flags when exporting to the synthetic format.  Flags may
	      be given as numeric values or as a comma-separated list of  flag
	      names  that  are	passed	to  hwloc_topology_export_synthetic().
	      Those names may be substrings of actual flag names as long as  a
	      single  one  matches.   A value of 2 (or no_attr) reverts to the
	      format of hwloc v1.9.  A value of 3 (or no_ext,no_attr)  reverts
	      to  the original minimalistic format (before v1.9).  The default
	      is 0 (or none).

       -v --verbose
	      Include additional detail.  The hwloc-info tool may be  used  to
	      display even more information about specific objects.

       -q --quiet -s --silent
	      Reduce the amount of details to show.

       --distances
	      Only display distance matrices.

       --distances-transform <links|merge-switch-ports|transitive-closure>
	      Try  applying  a	transformation	to distances structures before
	      displaying them.	See hwloc_distances_transform()	 for  details.
	      More transformations may be applied using hwloc-annotate(1) (and
	      it may save their output to XML).

       --memattrs
	      Only  display  memory  attributes.   All	of  them are displayed
	      (while the default textual output selects memory	attribute  de‐
	      tails depending on the verbosity level).

       --cpukinds
	      Only  display  CPU  kinds.   CPU	kinds  are displayed in order,
	      starting from the most energy efficient ones up  to  the	rather
	      higher performance and power hungry ones.

       --windows-processor-groups
	      On  Windows,  only show information about processor groups.  All
	      of them are displayed, while the	default	 verbose  output  only
	      shows them if there are more than one.

       -f --force
	      If the destination file already exists, overwrite it.

       -l --logical
	      Display  hwloc logical indexes of all objects, with prefix "L#".
	      By default, both logical and physical/OS indexes	are  displayed
	      for  PUs	and NUMA nodes, logical only for cores, dies and pack‐
	      ages, and no index for other types.

       -p --physical
	      Display OS/physical indexes of all objects,  with	 prefix	 "P#".
	      By  default,  both logical and physical/OS indexes are displayed
	      for PUs and NUMA nodes, logical only for cores, dies  and	 pack‐
	      ages, and no index for other types.

       --logical-index-prefix <prefix>
	      Replace " L#" with the given prefix for logical indexes.

       --os-index-prefix <prefix>
	      Replace " P#" with the given prefix for physical/OS indexes.

       -c --cpuset
	      Display the cpuset of each object.

       -C --cpuset-only
	      Only  display the cpuset of each object; do not display anything
	      else about the object.

       --taskset
	      Show CPU set strings in the format  recognized  by  the  taskset
	      command-line  program  instead  of hwloc-specific CPU set string
	      format.	This  option  should  be  combined  with  --cpuset  or
	      --cpuset-only, otherwise it will imply --cpuset.

       --only <type>
	      Only show objects of the given type in the textual output.

	      <type> may contain a filter to select specific objects among the
	      type. For instance --only NUMA[HBM] only shows NUMA nodes marked
	      with  subtype  "HBM", while --only "numa[mcdram]" only shows MC‐
	      DRAM NUMA nodes on KNL.

       --filter <type>:<kind>, --filter <type>
	      Filter objects of type <type>, or	 of  any  type	if  <type>  is
	      "all".  "io", "cache" and "icache" are also supported.

	      <kind> specifies the filtering behavior.	If "none" or not spec‐
	      ified, all objects of the given type are removed.	 If "all", all
	      objects  are  kept  as  usual.  If "structure", objects are kept
	      when they bring structure to the topology.  If "important" (only
	      applicable to  I/O),  only  important  objects  are  kept.   See
	      hwloc_topology_set_type_filter() for more details.

	      hwloc  supports  filtering  any  type except PUs and NUMA nodes.
	      lstopo also offers PU and NUMA node filtering by hiding them  in
	      the  graphical  and  textual outputs, but any object included in
	      them (for instance Misc) will be hidden as well.	Note that  PUs
	      and  NUMA nodes may not be ignored in the XML output.  Note also
	      that the top-level object type cannot be	ignored	 (usually  Ma‐
	      chine or System).

       --ignore <type>
	      This is the old way to specify --filter <type>:none.

       --no-smt
	      Ignore PUs.  This is identical to --filter PU:none.

       --no-caches
	      Do not show caches.  This is identical to --filter cache:none.

       --no-useless-caches
	      This is identical to --filter cache:structure.

       --no-icaches
	      This is identical to --filter icache:none.

       --disallowed
	      Include  objects	disallowed  by administrative limitations (e.g
	      Cgroups on Linux).  Offline PUs and NUMA	nodes  are  still  ig‐
	      nored.

       --allow <all|local|0xff|nodeset=0xf0>
	      Include  objects	disallowed  by administrative limitations (im‐
	      plies --disallowed) and also change the set of allowed ones.

	      If local is given, only objects available to the current process
	      are allowed (default behavior when loading from the native oper‐
	      ating system backend).  It may be useful	if  the	 topology  was
	      created  by  another  process (with different administrative re‐
	      strictions such as Linux Cgroups) and loaded  here  loaded  from
	      XML or synthetic.	 This case implies --thissystem.

	      If all, all objects are allowed.

	      If  a bitmap is given as a hexadecimal string, it is used as the
	      set of allowed PUs.

	      If a bitmap is given after prefix nodeset=, it is the set of al‐
	      lowed NUMA nodes.

       --flags <flags>
	      Enforce topology flags.  Flags may be given as numeric values or
	      as a comma-separated list of  flag  names	 that  are  passed  to
	      hwloc_topology_set_flags().   Those  names  may be substrings of
	      actual flag names as long as a single one matches, for  instance
	      disallowed,thissystem_allowed.  The default is 8 (or import).

       --merge
	      Do not show levels that do not have a hierarchical impact.  This
	      sets  HWLOC_TYPE_FILTER_KEEP_STRUCTURE  for  all	object	types.
	      This is identical to --filter all:structure.

       --no-factorize --no-factorize=<type>
	      Never factorize identical objects in the graphical output.

	      If an object type is given, only factorizing of these objects is
	      disabled.	 This only applies to normal CPU-side objects,	it  is
	      independent from PCI collapsing.

       --factorize --factorize=[<type>,]<N>[,<L>[,<F>]
	      Factorize identical children in the graphical output (enabled by
	      default).

	      If <N> is specified (4 by default), factorizing only occurs when
	      there  are  strictly more than N identical children.  If <L> and
	      <F> are specified, they set the numbers of first and last	 chil‐
	      dren to keep after factorizing.

	      If an object type is given, only factorizing of these objects is
	      configured.   This only applies to normal CPU-side object, it is
	      independent from PCI collapsing.

       --no-collapse
	      Do not collapse identical PCI devices.   By  default,  identical
	      sibling  PCI  devices  (such  as many virtual functions inside a
	      single physical device) are collapsed.

       --no-cpukinds
	      Do not show different kinds of CPUs in the graphical output.  By
	      default, when supported, different types of lines, thickness and
	      bold font may be used to display PU boxes of different kinds.

       --restrict <cpuset>
	      Restrict the topology to the given cpuset.   This	 removes  some
	      PUs and their now-child-less parents.

	      Beware  that  restricting	 the  PUs in a topology may change the
	      logical indexes of many objects, including NUMA nodes.

       --restrict nodeset=<nodeset>
	      Restrict the topology  to	 the  given  nodeset.	(unless	 --re‐
	      strict-flags  specifies something different).  This removes some
	      NUMA nodes and their now-child-less parents.

	      Beware that restricting the NUMA nodes in a topology may	change
	      the logical indexes of many objects, including PUs.

       --restrict binding
	      Restrict	the topology to the current process binding.  This op‐
	      tion requires the use of the actual current machine topology (or
	      any other topology with --thissystem  or	with  HWLOC_THISSYSTEM
	      set to 1 in the environment).

	      Beware  that restricting the topology may change the logical in‐
	      dexes of many objects, including PUs and NUMA nodes.

       --restrict-flags <flags>
	      Enforce flags when restricting the topology.  Flags may be given
	      as numeric values or as a comma-separated	 list  of  flag	 names
	      that  are	 passed to hwloc_topology_restrict().  Those names may
	      be substrings of actual flag names  as  long  as	a  single  one
	      matches,	for  instance bynodeset,memless.  The default is 0 (or
	      none).

       --no-io
	      Do not show any I/O device or  bridge.   This  is	 identical  to
	      --filter io:none.	 By default, common devices (GPUs, NICs, block
	      devices, ...) and interesting bridges/switches are shown.

       --no-bridges
	      Do  not show any I/O bridge except hostbridges.  This is identi‐
	      cal to --filter bridge:none.  By default, common devices	(GPUs,
	      NICs,  block  devices, ...) and interesting bridges/switches are
	      shown.

       --whole-io
	      Show all I/O devices and bridges.	 This is identical to --filter
	      io:all.  By default, only common devices (GPUs, NICs, block  de‐
	      vices, ...) and interesting bridges/switches are shown.

       --thissystem
	      Assume  that  the selected backend provides the topology for the
	      system on which we are running.  This is useful when  loading  a
	      custom topology such as an XML file and using --restrict binding
	      or --allow all.

       --pid <pid>
	      Detect  topology	as  seen  by process <pid>, i.e. as if process
	      <pid> did the discovery itself.  Note that this can for instance
	      change the set of allowed processors.  Also  show	 this  process
	      current  CPU and Memory binding by marking the corresponding PUs
	      and NUMA nodes (in Green in the graphical output, see the COLORS
	      section below, or by appending (binding)	to  the	 verbose  text
	      output).	 If  0	is  given  as pid, the current binding for the
	      lstopo process will be shown.

       --ps --top
	      Show existing processes as misc objects in the output. To	 avoid
	      uselessly	 cluttering  the  output,  only processes that are re‐
	      stricted to some part of the machine are shown.  On Linux,  ker‐
	      nel threads are not shown.  If many processes appear, the output
	      may become hard to read anyway, making the hwloc-ps program more
	      practical.

	      See --misc-from for a customizable variant using hwloc-ps.

       --misc-from <file>
	      Add  Misc objects as described in <file> containing entries such
	      as:

		  name=myMisc1
		  cpuset=0x5

		  name=myMisc2
		  cpuset=0x7
		  subtype=myOptionalSubtype

	      This is useful for combining with	 hwloc-ps  --lstopo-misc  (see
	      EXAMPLES	below)	because hwloc-ps is far more customizable than
	      lstopo's --top option.

       --children-order <order>
	      Change the order of the different kinds of children with respect
	      to their parent in the  graphical	 output.   <order>  may	 be  a
	      comma-separated list of keywords among:

	      memory:above  displays memory children above other children (and
	      above the parent if it is a cache).   PUs	 are  therefore	 below
	      their local NUMA nodes, like hwloc 1.x did.

	      io:right	and misc:right place I/O or Misc children on the right
	      of CPU children.

	      io:below	and misc:below place I/O or Misc  children  below  CPU
	      children.

	      plain  places  everything not specified together with normal CPU
	      children.

	      If only plain is specified, lstopo displays the  topology	 in  a
	      basic  manner that strictly matches the actual tree: Memory, I/O
	      and Misc children are listed below their parent  just  like  any
	      other  child.  PUs are therefore on the side of their local NUMA
	      nodes, below a common  ancestor.	 This  output  may  result  in
	      strange  layouts	since the size of Memory, CPU and I/O children
	      may be very different, causing the placement algorithm to poorly
	      arrange them in rows.

	      The  default  order  is  memory:above,io:right,misc:right	 which
	      means  Memory children are above CPU children while I/O and Misc
	      are together on the right.

	      Up to hwloc 2.5, the default was rather to memory:above,plain.

	      Additionally, memory:above, io:right, io:below,  misc:right  and
	      misc:below  may be suffixed with :horiz, :vert or :rect to force
	      the horizontal, vertical or rectangular layout of	 children  in‐
	      side these sections.

	      See also the GRAPHICAL OUTPUT and LAYOUT sections below.

       --fontsize <size>
	      Set the size of text font in the graphical output.

	      The default is 10.

	      Boxes   are   scaled   according	 to   the   text   size.   The
	      LSTOPO_TEXT_XSCALE environment variable may be used  to  further
	      scale the width of boxes (its default value is 1.0).

	      The --fontsize option is ignored in the ASCII backend.

       --gridsize <size>
	      Set the margin between elements in the graphical output.

	      The default is 7. It was 10 prior to hwloc 2.1.

	      This option is ignored in the ASCII backend.

       --linespacing <size>
	      Set the spacing between lines of text in the graphical output.

	      The default is 4.

	      The  option  was	included in --gridsize prior to hwloc 2.1 (and
	      its default was 10).

	      This option is ignored in the ASCII backend.

       --thickness <size>
	      Set the thickness of lines and boxes in the graphical output.

	      The default is 1.

	      This option is ignored in the ASCII backend.

       --horiz, --horiz=<type1,...>
	      Force a horizontal graphical layout instead of nearly 4/3	 ratio
	      in  the  graphical  output.  If a comma-separated list of object
	      types is given, the layout only  applies	to  the	 corresponding
	      container objects.  Ignored for bridges since their children are
	      always vertically aligned.

       --vert, --vert=<type1,...>
	      Force a vertical graphical layout instead of nearly 4/3 ratio in
	      the graphical output.  If a comma-separated list of object types
	      is given, the layout only applies to the corresponding container
	      objects.

       --rect, --rect=<type1,...>
	      Force  a	rectangular  graphical layout with nearly 4/3 ratio in
	      the graphical output.  If a comma-separated list of object types
	      is given, the layout only applies to the corresponding container
	      objects.	Ignored for bridges since their	 children  are	always
	      vertically aligned.

       --no-text, --no-text=<type1,...>
	      Do  not display any text in boxes in the graphical output.  If a
	      comma-separated list of object types is given, text is  disabled
	      for the corresponding objects.  This is mostly useful for remov‐
	      ing text from Group objects.

       --text, --text=<type1,...>
	      Display  text  in boxes in the graphical output (default).  If a
	      comma-separated list of object types is given, text is reenabled
	      for the corresponding objects (if	 it  was  previously  disabled
	      with --no-text).

       --no-index, --no-index=<type1,...>
	      Do not show object indexes in the graphical output.  If a comma-
	      separated	 list  of  object types is given, indexes are disabled
	      for the corresponding objects.

       --index, --index=<type1,...>
	      Show object indexes in the graphical  output  (default).	 If  a
	      comma-separated list of object types is given, indexes are reen‐
	      abled  for  the  corresponding  objects (if they were previously
	      disabled with --no-index).

       --no-attrs, --no-attrs=<type1,...>
	      Do not show object attributes (such as memory size, cache	 size,
	      PCI  bus ID, PCI link speed, etc.)  in the graphical output.  If
	      a comma-separated list of object types is given, attributes  are
	      disabled for the corresponding objects.

       --attrs, --attrs=<type1,...>
	      Show object attributes (such as memory size, cache size, PCI bus
	      ID,  PCI	link  speed, etc.)  in the graphical output (default).
	      If a comma-separated list of object types is  given,  attributes
	      are reenabled for the corresponding objects (if they were previ‐
	      ously disabled with --no-attrs).

       --no-legend
	      Remove all text legend lines at the bottom of the graphical out‐
	      put.

       --no-default-legend
	      Remove  default text legend lines at the bottom of the graphical
	      output.  User-added legend lines	with  --append-legend  or  the
	      "lstopoLegend" info are still displayed if any.

       --append-legend <line>
	      Append  the  line	 of  text  to  the bottom of the legend in the
	      graphical output.	 If adding multiple lines, each line should be
	      given separately by passing this option multiple	times.	 Addi‐
	      tional  legend  lines  may also be specified inside the topology
	      using the "lstopoLegend" info attributes on  the	topology  root
	      object.

       --grey, --greyscale
	      Use greyscale instead of colors in the graphical output.

       --palette <grey|greyscale|defaut|colors|white|none>
	      Change  the color palette.  Passing grey or greyscale is identi‐
	      cal to passing --grey or --greyscale.   Passing  white  or  none
	      uses  white  instead of colors for all box backgrounds.  Passing
	      default or colors reverts back to the default color palette.

       --palette type=#rrggbb
	      Replace the color of the given box type with  the	 given	3x8bit
	      hexadecimal  RGB	combination  (e.g.  #ff0000 is red).  Existing
	      types are machine, group, package, group_in_package, die,	 core,
	      pu,  numanode,  memories	(box  containing multiple memory chil‐
	      dren), cache, pcidev, osdev, bridge, and misc.

	      See also CUSTOM COLOR below for customizing individual objects.

       --binding-color <none|#rrggbb>
	      Do not colorize PUs and NUMA nodes according to the  binding  in
	      the  graphical  output.  Or change the color to the given 3x8bit
	      hexadecimal RGB combination (e.g. #ff0000 is red).

       --disallowed-color <none|#rrggbb>
	      Do not colorize disallowed PUs and NUMA nodes in	the  graphical
	      output.  Or change the color to the given 3x8bit hexadecimal RGB
	      combination (e.g. #00ff00 is green).

       --top-color <none|#rrggbb>
	      Do  not colorize task objects in the graphical output when --top
	      is given.	 Or change the color to the given  3x8bit  hexadecimal
	      RGB  combination	(e.g.  #0000ff is blue).  This is actually ap‐
	      plied to Misc objects of subtype Process or Thread.

       --version
	      Report version and exit.

       -h --help
	      Display help message and exit.

DESCRIPTION
       lstopo and lstopo-no-graphics are capable of displaying	a  topological
       map  of	the system in a variety of different output formats.  The only
       difference between lstopo and lstopo-no-graphics is that graphical out‐
       puts are only supported by lstopo, to reduce dependencies  on  external
       libraries.  hwloc-ls is identical to lstopo-no-graphics.

       The  filename specified directly implies the output format that will be
       used; see the OUTPUT FORMATS section, below.  Output formats that  sup‐
       port color will indicate specific characteristics about individual CPUs
       by their color; see the COLORS section, below.

OUTPUT FORMATS
       By default, if no output filename is specified, the output is sent to a
       graphical  window if possible in the current environment (DISPLAY envi‐
       ronment variable set on Unix, etc.).  Otherwise, a text summary is dis‐
       played in the console.  The console is also used when the program  runs
       from  a terminal and the output is redirected to a pipe or file.	 These
       default behaviors may be changed by passing --of console to force  con‐
       sole mode or --of window for graphical window.

       The  filename  on the command line usually determines the format of the
       output.	There are a few filenames that indicate specific  output  for‐
       mats and devices (e.g., a filename of "-" will output a text summary to
       stdout), but most filenames indicate the desired output format by their
       suffix (e.g., "topo.png" will output a PNG-format file).

       The  format  of	the  output  may also be changed with "--of".  For in‐
       stance, "--of pdf" will generate a PDF-format file on the standard out‐
       put, while "--of fig toto" will output a Xfig-format file named "toto".

       The list of currently supported formats is given below. Any of them may
       be used with "--of" or as a filename suffix.

       default
	      Send the output to a window or to the console depending  on  the
	      environment.

       window Send the output to a graphical window.

       console
	      Send  a text summary to stdout.  Binding or unallowed processors
	      are only annotated in this mode if verbose; see the COLORS  sec‐
	      tion, below.

       ascii  Output  an  ASCII art representation of the map (formerly called
	      txt).  If outputting to stdout and if colors  are	 supported  on
	      the terminal, the output will be colorized.

       tikz or tex
	      Output a LaTeX tikzpicture representation of the map that can be
	      compiled with a LaTeX compiler.

       fig    Output a representation of the map that can be loaded in Xfig.

       svg    Output a SVG representation of the map, using Cairo (by default,
	      if  supported)  or  a  native SVG backend (fallback, always sup‐
	      ported).	See cairosvg and nativesvg below.

       cairosvg or svg(cairo)
	      If lstopo was compiled with the proper  support,	output	a  SVG
	      representation of the map using Cairo.

       nativesvg or svg(native)
	      Output  a	 SVG  representation  of  the map using the native SVG
	      backend.	It may be less pretty than the Cairo output, but it is
	      always supported, and SVG objects have attributes for  identify‐
	      ing  and manipulating them.  See dynamic_SVG_example.html for an
	      example.

       pdf    If lstopo was compiled with the proper support, lstopo outputs a
	      PDF representation of the map.

       ps     If lstopo was compiled with the proper support, lstopo outputs a
	      Postscript representation of the map.

       png    If lstopo was compiled with the proper support, lstopo outputs a
	      PNG representation of the map.

       synthetic
	      If the topology is symmetric (which requires that the  root  ob‐
	      ject has its symmetric_subtree field set), lstopo outputs a syn‐
	      thetic  description string.  This output may be reused as an in‐
	      put synthetic topology description later.	  See  also  the  Syn‐
	      thetic  topologies section in the documentation.	Note that Misc
	      and I/O devices are ignored during this export.

       xml    lstopo outputs an XML representation of  the  map.   It  may  be
	      reused  later, even on another machine, with lstopo --input, the
	      HWLOC_XMLFILE  environment   variable,   or   the	  hwloc_topol‐
	      ogy_set_xml() function.

       The following special names may be used:

       -      Send a text summary to stdout.

       /dev/stdout
	      Send  a  text  summary to stdout.	 It is effectively the same as
	      specifying "-".

       -.<format>
	      If the entire filename is "-.<format>",  lstopo  behaves	as  if
	      "--of  <format>  -"  was	given, which means a file of the given
	      format is sent to the standard output.

       See the output of "lstopo --help" for a specific list of what graphical
       output formats are supported in your hwloc installation.

GRAPHICAL OUTPUT
       The graphical output is made of nested boxes representing the inclusion
       of objects in the hierarchy of resources.  Usually a Machine  box  con‐
       tains  one  or several Package boxes, that contain multiple Core boxes,
       with one or several PUs each.

   Caches
       Caches are displayed in a slightly different manner because they do not
       actually include computing resources such as cores.  For instance, a L2
       Cache shared by a pair of Cores is drawn as a Cache box on top  of  two
       Core boxes (instead of having Core boxes inside the Cache box).

   NUMA nodes and Memory-side Caches
       By  default, NUMA nodes boxes are drawn on top of their local computing
       resources.  For instance, a processor Package containing one NUMA  node
       and  four  Cores is displayed as a Package box containing the NUMA node
       box above four Core boxes.  If a NUMA node is local to  the  L3	Cache,
       the  NUMA  node	is  displayed above that Cache box.  All this specific
       drawing strategy for memory objects may be disabled by passing command-
       line option --children-order plain.

       If multiple NUMA nodes are attached to the same parent object, they are
       displayed inside an additional unnamed memory box.

       If some Memory-side Caches exist in front of some NUMA nodes, they  are
       drawn as boxes immediately above them.

   PCI bridges, PCI devices and OS devices
       The PCI hierarchy is not drawn as a set of included boxes but rather as
       a  tree	of  bridges (that may actually be switches) with links between
       them.  The tree starts with a small square on the left  for  the	 host‐
       bridge  or  root	 complex.  It ends with PCI device boxes on the right.
       Intermediate  PCI  bridges/switches  may	 appear	 as  additional	 small
       squares in the middle.

       PCI devices on the right of the tree are boxes containing their PCI bus
       ID  (such  as  00:02.3).	 They may also contain sub-boxes for OS device
       objects such as a network interface eth0 or a CUDA GPU cuda0.

       When there is a single link (horizontal line) on the  right  of	a  PCI
       bridge,	it  means  that	 a single device or bridge is connected on the
       secondary PCI bus behind that bridge.  When there is a  vertical	 line,
       it means that multiple devices and/or bridges are connected to the same
       secondary PCI bus.

       The  datarate  of  a  PCI link may be written (in GB/s) right below its
       drawn line (if the operating system and/or libraries are able to report
       that information).  This datarate is the currently configured speed  of
       the  entire  PCI	 link  (sum  of the bandwidth of all PCI lanes in that
       link).  It may change during execution since some devices are  able  to
       slow their PCI links down when idle.

LAYOUT
       In  its	graphical output, lstopo uses simple rectangular heuristics to
       try to achieve a 4/3 ratio between width and height.  Although the  hi‐
       erarchy	of resources is properly reflected, the exact physical organi‐
       zation (NUMA distances, rings, complete graphs, etc.) is currently  ig‐
       nored.

       The  layout  of a level may be changed with --vert, --horiz, and --rect
       to force a parent object to arrange its children in vertical,  horizon‐
       tal or rectangular manners respectively.

       The  position  of  Memory,  I/O and Misc children with respect to other
       children objects may be changed using  --children-order.	  This	effec‐
       tivement	 divides children into multiple sections.  The layout of chil‐
       dren is first computed inside each section, before sections are	placed
       inside (or below) the parent box.

       The vertical/horizontal/rectangular layout of these additional sections
       may also be configured through --children-order.

COLORS
       Individual CPUs and NUMA nodes are colored in the graphical output for‐
       mats to indicate different characteristics:

       Green  The  topology  is	 reported  as  seen by a specific process (see
	      --pid), and the given CPU or NUMA node is in this process CPU or
	      Memory binding mask.

       White  The CPU or NUMA node is in the allowed set (see below).  If  the
	      topology	is reported as seen by a specific process (see --pid),
	      the object is also not in this process binding mask.

       Red    The CPU or NUMA node is not in the allowed set (see below).

       The "allowed set" is the set of CPUs or NUMA nodes to which the current
       process is allowed to bind.  The allowed set is usually	either	inher‐
       ited  from the parent process or set by administrative qpolicies on the
       system.	Linux cpusets are one example of limiting the allowed set  for
       a process and its children to be less than the full set of CPUs or NUMA
       nodes on the system.

       Different  processes may therefore have different CPUs or NUMA nodes in
       the allowed set.	 Hence, invoking lstopo in different  contexts	and/or
       as different users may display different colors for the same individual
       CPUs  (e.g.,  running  lstopo in one context may show a specific CPU as
       red, but running lstopo in a different context may show the same CPU as
       white).

       Some lstopo output modes, e.g. the console mode (default	 non-graphical
       output),	 do  not support colors at all.	 The console mode displays the
       above characteristics by appending text to each PU line if verbose mes‐
       sages are enabled.

CUSTOM COLORS
       The  colors  of	different  kinds  of  boxes  may  be  configured  with
       --palette.

       The  color  of each object in the graphical output may also be enforced
       by specifying a "lstopoStyle" info attribute in that object.  Its value
       should be a semi-colon separated list  of  "<attribute>=#rrggbb"	 where
       rr,  gg	and  bb	 are the RGB components of a color, each between 0 and
       255, in hexadecimal (00 to ff).	<attribute> may be

       Background
	      Sets the background color of the main object box.

       Text   Sets the color of the text showing the object name, type, index,
	      etc.

       Text2  Sets the color of the additional text near the object,  for  in‐
	      stance the link speed behind a PCI bridge.

       The  "lstopoStyle" info may be added to a temporarily-saved XML topolo‐
       gies with hwloc-annotate, or with hwloc_obj_add_info().	For  instance,
       to display all core objects in blue (with white names):

	   lstopo save.xml
	   hwloc-annotate  save.xml  save.xml core:all info lstopoStyle "Back‐
       ground=#0000ff;Text=#ffffff"
	   lstopo -i save.xml

EXAMPLES
       To display the machine topology in textual mode:

	   lstopo-no-graphics

       To display the machine topology in ascii-art mode:

	   lstopo-no-graphics -.ascii

       To display in graphical mode (assuming  that  the  DISPLAY  environment
       variable is set to a relevant value):

	   lstopo

       To export the topology to a PNG file:

	   lstopo file.png

       To  export an XML file on a machine and later display the corresponding
       graphical output on another machine:

	   machine1$ lstopo file.xml
	   <transfer file.xml from machine1 to machine2>
	   machine2$ lstopo --input file.xml

       To save the current machine topology to XML and later reload it	faster
       while still considering it as the current machine:

	  $ lstopo file.xml
	  <...>
	  $ lstopo --input file.xml --thissystem

       To restrict an XML topology to only physical processors 0, 1, 4 and 5:

	   lstopo --input file.xml --restrict 0x33 newfile.xml

       To restrict an XML topology to only numa node whose logical index is 1:

	   lstopo  --input  file.xml  --restrict $(hwloc-calc --input file.xml
       node:1) newfile.xml

       To display a summary of the topology:

	   lstopo -s

       To get more details about the topology:

	   lstopo -v

       To only show cores:

	   lstopo --only core

       To show cpusets:

	   lstopo --cpuset

       To only show the cpusets of package:

	   lstopo --only package --cpuset-only

       Simulate a fake hierarchy; this example shows with 2 NUMA  nodes	 of  2
       processor units:

	   lstopo --input "node:2 2"

       To count the number of logical processors in the system

	  lstopo --only pu | wc -l

       To append the kernel release and version to the graphical legend:

	  lstopo --append-legend "Kernel release: $(uname -r)" --append-legend
       "Kernel version: $(uname -v)"

       To  show	 where	a process and its children are bound by combining with
       hwloc-ps:

	  hwloc-ps --pid-children 23 --lstopo-misc - | lstopo --misc-from -

NOTES
       lstopo displays memory and cache sizes with units such as kB  (1	 kilo‐
       byte  =	1000 bytes) or GB (1 gigabyte = 1000*1000*1000 bytes) while it
       actually means KiB (1 kibibyte = 1024 bytes)  or	 GiB  (1  gibibytes  =
       1024*1024*1024 bytes) .

SEE ALSO
       hwloc(7), hwloc-info(1), hwloc-bind(1), hwloc-annotate(1), hwloc-ps(1),
       hwloc-gather-topology(1), hwloc-gather-cpuid(1)

2.10.0				 Dec 04, 2023			     LSTOPO(1)
